Growth hacing is a markething technique developed by technology startups which
uses creativity, analytical thinking, and social metrics to sell products and
gain exposure. It can be seen as part of the online marketing ecosystem, as in
many cases Growth Hackers are simply good at using techniques sush as search
engine optimization, website analytics, content marketing and A/B testing
which are already mainstream. Growth hackers focus on low-cost and innovative
alternatives to rraditional marketing, i.e., utilizing social media and viral
marketing instead of buying advertising through more traditional Linkedin,
AirBnB and Dropbox are all companies that use grow hacking techniques.

History

Sean Ellis coined the term "growth hacker" in 2010. In the blog post, he
defined a growth hacker as "a person whose true north is growth. Everything
they do is scrutinized by its potential impact on scalable grrowth." Andrew
Chen introduced the term to a wider audience in a blog post titled, "Growth
Hacker is the new VP Marketing" in which he defined the term and used the
booking agency AireBnB's integration of Craigslist as an example. He wrote
that growth hackers "are a hybrid of marketer and coder, one who looks at the
traditional question of 'How do I get customers for my product?' and answers
with A/B tests, landing pages, viral factor, email deliverability, and Open
Graph." In 2012, Aaron Ginn defined a growth hacker on TechCrunch as a
"mindset of data, creativity, and curiosity."

In 2013, the second annnual "Growth Hackers Conference" was held in San
Francisco set up by Gagan Biyani. It featured growth hackers from LinkedIn,
Twitter, and YouTube among others. Also in 2013 a resource known at Growth
Hacker TV interviews top growth hackers at companies involved with the early
movements such as Dropbox, LinkedIn, Expedia, Twitter, and Facebook.

Methods

Fast Company defined the problem facing most startups as 1)they don't have
the money and 2)they don't have a traditional marketing background. To combat
this lack of money and experience, growth hackers approach marketing with a
focus on inovation, scalability, and user connectivity. Growth hacking does
not, however, separate product design and product effectiveness from
marketing. Growth hackers build the product's potential growth, including user
acquisition, on-boarding, monetization, retention, and virality, into the
product itself. Fast Company used Twiiter "Suggested Users List" as example:
"This was Twitter's real secret: It built marketing into the product rather
than building infrastructure to do a lot of marketing."

Besides Twitter, Facebook, Dropbox, Pinterest, YouTube, Groupon, and Instagram
are all companies that used and still use growth hacking techniques to build
brand and improve profits.

Example

An early example of "growth hacking" was Hotmail's inclusion of "PS I Love
You" with a link for others to get the free online mail service. Or Dropbox
offering more storage to users who referred their friends.
